


#** Breast Cancer Diagnosis Using Data Mining Techniques **

** Abstract– ** This research represents an application of Data Mining i.e. knowledge discovery in database (KDD) to predict whether the patient is affected by non-cancerous (Benign) or cancerous (Malignant) lesions. The reliability of classification is challenging because of measurement noise and biological heterogeneity. The Wisconsin Diagnostic Breast Cancer disclosure dataset is used, based on Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA), from UCI machine learning repository site. There is a difficulty in distinguishing Benign from Malignant. The implementation of different supervised learning methods and comparison of their performance and error properties can be an approach to this binary classification problem. Four distinct classification algorithms and feature selection methods are applied in this research. Random Forest (RF) algorithm with Chi-square 
feature selection methodology, which achieves 96.91% accuracy, is a superior method to the other classifiers. 
** Introduction ** 
 
Breast Cancer, a killing disease, is the most common cancer among women after non-melanoma skin cancer. Men are affected by breast cancer, but it is not common. It is a malignant tumor that grows in the cells of the breast. Despite all sophisticatedly scientific research, breast cancer with 1 million cases, is a leading cause of 600,000 death of women worldwide annually [1]. According to the U.S. breast cancer statistics, rather 255,180 new cases of breast cancer are estimated to be diagnosed in women in 2017, thus resulting in death of about 40,610 women in the U.S. With large volume of medical data, data mining classification approaches have been introduced to the medical world to implement the process of discovery pattern in large datasets. Although there are predictive medical procedures for diagnosis, machine learning applications are widely employed to classify whether the breast tumor is benign or malignant. Also, in medical processes, the patient must undergo several tests as there can be an error of false negative or false positive that reduce the reliability of one single test. The algorithms capable of making a prediction by considering variable test diagnostics aiming at submitting patients to fewer testing. The supervised learning methods can address this binary classification problem with input feature vectors (xi) and corresponding labels (yi) by forming m examples (xi, yi). The result can be either Malignant (positive label) or Benign (negative label). Inevitably, some features such as the size of the tumor are very predictive, but it is not possible to reach a definitive result with the only single feature. As a result, some algorithms can be used to select the set of significant attributes. There is a difficulty in distinguishing benign (B=0) from malignant (M=1) lesions. The implementation of supervised learning algorithms and comparison of their results and error properties can be the approach to this binary classification problem. Such algorithms are evaluated in this research are K- Nearest Neighbors (K-NN), Support Vectors Machines (SVM), Random Forest (RF) and Decision Tree (DT).  Also, the applied feature selection methods are RFE, Chi-square, Regsubsets and intuitively features selecting. This research has steps which are organized as follow: Literature review is  shown in section 2. Section 3 demonstrates the description of the dataset along with individual attributes. Proposed approach is presented in section 4. Preprocessing and feature selection is discussed in section 5 and six respectively. Section 7 illustrates the training and classification phases. In section 8, performance evaluation is discussed. Experimental results and evaluation of classifiers are discussed in section 8. Finally, the conclusion of this paper is introduced in section 9.  

